The Combine: Emergent Architecture, Fabrication Modes, and Domain-Specific Role Behavior

Date: 2025-12-10
Author: Tom (via ChatGPT)
Purpose: Resume work on the conceptual foundations of The Combine, specifically the transformation into a multi-domain fabrication system and the PM→Architect domain pipeline.

🧭 Summary of Where We Left Off

This document captures the exact point reached in the conceptual evolution of The Combine:

We defined a Routing System (RSP-1.1) for all artifacts in the Workbench, enabling structured addressing and deterministic context retrieval.

We introduced the idea that the PM must specify the Architect’s domain, because the PM is the only role with full problem-space awareness.

We formalized the crucial distinction between:

Software Architecture (full system-controlled fabrication)

Physical Architecture (system designs, humans build)

Hybrid Architecture (system designs + machines fabricate)

We realized this distinction is not just practical — it defines The Combine’s identity as a general-purpose value factory.

This is the moment where The Combine stops being a software-generating tool and becomes an operating system for work, capable of producing plans, systems, and physical-world outputs.

🔥 Key Insights
1. The PM must set architect_domain

The PM now outputs something like:

"architect_domain": "software"


or:

"architect_domain": "physical"


or:

"architect_domain": "hybrid"


This allows the Architect role to completely change "world models" depending on the type of work.

2. Software vs Physical vs Hybrid Architecture

This was the breakthrough:

🧩 Software Architecture

We control fabrication (code → build → deploy → operate).
The entire pipeline is internal to The Combine.

🌿 Physical Architecture

We design, but humans (or the physical world) execute the plans.
The Combine is an advisor, not the builder.

🤖 Hybrid Architecture

We design AND fabricate via machines (CNC, robotic systems, 3D printing, IoT).

This sets the stage for The Combine to eventually become a cyber-physical system designer and maker.

3. The Combine as a Meta-Factory

The system takes:

Epics

Stories

Constraints

Intent

…and produces:

Code

Plans

Architectures

Layouts

Blueprints

Instructions

Physical construction sequences

Fabrication artifacts

The domain determines what the output should be,
but the pipeline stays the same.

This was the conceptual moment where the Combine became exactly what you’ve envisioned:
a general-purpose fabrication engine for work.

📚 Important Documents Completed in This Track

RSP-1.1 — Routing Specification

Terse path format

Grammar

Validation

ADR routing

Context loading

Breadcrumb Schema (final minimal form)

Single required field: artifact_path

Adds intent and resume_instructions

Architect Domain Modes (emerging concept)

To be formalized into Architect Modes v1

🚧 Open Items To Resume

These are the things we paused right before starting:

1️⃣ Formal Architect Modes v1

Define:

Software mode

Physical mode

Hybrid mode

Organizational mode

Spatial design mode

Each with:

Outputs

Constraints

Acceptance criteria

Patterns

Safety considerations

2️⃣ Update to PM Mentor Prompt

Include:

"architect_domain": "<mode>"


with fallback auto-detection.

3️⃣ Update to Architect Mentor Prompt

Full prompt split by domain, selected by orchestrator.

4️⃣ Create The Fabrication Stack Document

Describing:

The Combine as a post-industrial fabrication OS

Relationship between intent → design → fabrication

Cyber-physical convergence

How software pipelines parallel manufacturing lines

5️⃣ Apply Domain Mode to Garden Epic

Re-run:

PM

BA

Architect

Dev

QA

with:

"architect_domain": "physical"

6️⃣ Potential Auto-Detection Heuristics

Based on keywords like:

lumber, soil, grading → physical

API, DB, auth → software

IoT, sensors → hybrid

org, governance → organizational

🔮 Long-Term Direction Identified

Turning The Combine into a cyber-physical “maker system”

Generating machine-readable fabrication artifacts (CAD, STL, STEP)

Integrating with robotics / CNC / automation

Creating a general-purpose “Work OS” for any domain

Scaling The Combine to organizational transformation, not just software work

This track is foundational for The Digital Combine series.

📎 When Resuming This Track

Start by saying:

“Resume The Combine Fabrication Stack track-back.”

This will restore context and continue with Architect Modes v1.